NASA's returned to the moon will require
lots of heavy lifting but don't expect
the astronauts to do all the work NASA
scientists and engineers have been
digging a little bit deeper to come up
with resourceful ways to make the most
of lunar resources will introduce you to
a major part of NASA's future workforce
next on real world
when astronauts go to work and live on
the moon NASA wants them to be as
productive as possible exploring and
doing science experiments that's why
they're turning lots of the mundane work
over to autonomous robots some of those
robots got put to the test recently in
Hawaii on Mauna Kea volcano as part of
NASA's in situ resource utilization
program we're here to try out different
ideas for extracting oxygen from lunar
regolith Tom Simon is the is are you
project office chief engineer this
particular location has several
advantages has a unique characteristic
that it has a volcanic ash that's very
similar to the regolith on the moon NASA
wants to take moon dirt or regolith and
pulled the oxygen out for astronauts to
breathe by adding hydrogen they could
also make water we've been evolving our
technology development effort where
we're now trying it out at the outpost
scale said we could have support a crew
of four on the surface of the Moon all
year long and help close the
life-support loop said you never have to
send a tank of oxygen and water to the
moon again to do that NASA needed to
come up with a way to get the regolith
to the reactor early in the design
process engineers calculated how much
regolith would be needed to sustain a
crew we were asked to deliver about 18
loads per 24-hour period to produce a
thousand kilograms of oxygen John Caruso
is the project lead for is are you and
human robotics at NASA's Glenn Research
Center and we also had to assume that
thirty percent of the days we could not
work that was the dark periods so
seventy percent of the time we would be
working we could go out for eight hours
and deliver about every half hour a load
we would also have to take away the
spent regolith and dump it in a site and
then after every eight hours we were
charged for two hours that left two
hours of margin in case anything needed
done we had a two hours to spare so in
every 12 hours shift we had two hours of
spare two hours of charging and eight
hours of work
nASA has come up with three possible
designs furthering the design process
they brought two excavating Rovers to
Hawaii for testing and evaluation one
called Kratos was developed by NASA
that's the full size rubber ball we need
for oxygen extraction to attract vehicle
an innovative aspect of it is that uses
a bucket in the middle almost the size
of its body to be able to go and collect
the material carry it back to our plants
it's going to drive up the ramp and
we're going to watch it drop the sample
into a hopper creativeness prospecting
work as well this unit that's attached
to this that sets down detects the
mineralogy of the soil if it's good we
pick it up and utilize it if it's not we
can move to another site another robot
that made the trip to Hawaii was
developed by Lockheed Martin it uses a
bucket drum to scoop up the soil and
then delivers it to a reactor the device
works by lowering the bucket drum to the
ground and rotating forward to pick it
up it works quite effectively and can
we're quite effectively on compacted
soil as well which is very nice it loads
up the drum about halfway and then it
lifts it up over its back it's an over
lift system and then it reverses the
flow and deposits the regolith into the
bin both systems come in at under 100
kilograms they require about the same
power as a 100-watt light bulb medicine
is also considering a third excavator
the chariot rover evaluation is another
part of the design process scientists
and engineers will examine the data from
testing done in Hawaii that along with
the information based on final surface
design will allow them to refine the
design until they get exactly what they
need for the lunar mission after many
tasks and careful consideration the best
solution will be chosen and that machine
will be taken to the moon
keep track of this and all of NASA's
exploration missions at WWDC govt
you